The .NET Core CLI (Command-Line Interface) provides a variety of common commands for managing and working with .NET Core projects and applications. Here are some of the most commonly used commands:

1. `dotnet new`: Used to create a new project or file from a template. For example, `dotnet new console` creates a new console application.

2. `dotnet restore`: Restores the dependencies and tools for a project. This command is often run after creating a new project or modifying the dependencies in the project file.

3. `dotnet build`: Builds the project and generates the executable or library. It compiles the source code and creates the necessary output files.

4. `dotnet run`: Builds and runs the application. This is a convenient way to compile and execute a project in one step.

5. `dotnet publish`: Publishes the application for deployment. This command prepares the application for distribution, including compiling the application and its dependencies and creating output files for a specific target runtime.

6. `dotnet test`: Runs unit tests in a project using a test runner like xUnit or MSTest.

7. `dotnet clean`: Deletes the build output and any intermediate files, allowing you to start fresh.

8. `dotnet add reference`: Adds a reference to another project or assembly. For example, `dotnet add reference MyLibrary.csproj` adds a reference to the "MyLibrary" project.

9. `dotnet restore`: Restores the project's NuGet dependencies and can be used to update them.

10. `dotnet --info`: Displays information about the installed .NET SDK and runtime versions.

11. `dotnet --list-sdks` and `dotnet --list-runtimes`: Lists installed SDKs and runtimes, respectively.

12. `dotnet new tool-manifest` and `dotnet tool install`: Used for managing global .NET CLI tools.

These are some of the most common commands you'll use with the .NET Core CLI. You can get more details on each command by running `dotnet --help` followed by the specific command name (e.g., `dotnet new --help`), which will provide a list of available options and parameters for that command.


### TESTED COMMANDS


### Commands to work with EF Migration & Docker
#### .NET CLI Tools
- This Tool is useful for Migrations
```csharp
dotnet tool list --global
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
Install-Package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools // Power Shell
dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate -p Donation.Infrastructure -s Donation.Api
```

#### Docker 
```csharp
docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2022-latest
docker image ls
docker run -e 'HOMEBREW_NO_ENV_FILTERING=1' -e 'ACCEPT_EULA=Y' -e 'SA_PASSWORD=asdf1234' -p 1433:1433 -d mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2022-latest
docker container ls
docker ps
dotnet ef database update -p Donation.Infrastructure -s Donation.Api --connection "Server=localhost;Database=Donation;User Id=sa;Password=asdf1234;Encrypt=false"

dotnet clean
dotnet restore
dotnet build
dotnet run --project Donation.Api

````
### INSTALLATION / UPGRADATION
```bash
dotnet tool install -g upgrade-assistant
dotnet tool update -g upgrade-assistant
dotnet tool install -g --ignore-failed-sources upgrade-assistant
upgrade-assistant upgrade
dotnet tool update --global dotnet-ef

```
# Upgrading Individual Package
<PackageReference Include="System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt" Version="7.6.2" />
- Command To Add Package / Upgrade
```bash
dotnet add package System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt --version 7.6.2
PM> NuGet\Install-Package System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt -Version 7.6.2
paket add System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt --version 7.6.2

```